[mkdocs] Fully document channels.messaging.knative.dev (#3650)
knative/docs: docs/eventing/channels/create-default-channel.md

# Creating a channel using cluster or namespace defaults

Developers can create channels of any supported implementation type by creating an instance of a
Channel object.

To create a channel:

* Create a [Channel object](https://knative.dev/docs/reference/api/eventing/#messaging.knative.dev/v1.Channel) by running:

    ```yaml
    kubectl apply -f <<EOF
    apiVersion: messaging.knative.dev/v1
    kind: Channel
    metadata:
      name: <example-channel>
      namespace: <namespace>
    EOF
    ```
    Where:

    * `<example-channel>` is the name of the channel you want to create.
    * `<namespace>` is the name of your target namespace.

If you create this object in the `default` namespace, according to the default ConfigMap

> example in [Channel types and defaults](./channel-types-defaults), it is an InMemoryChannel

Reviewer: link broken in preview?

Reviewer 2: Thanks, will fix.

channel implementation.

<!-- TODO: Add tabs for kn etc-->

After the Channel object is created, a mutating admission webhook sets the `spec.channelTemplate` based on the default channel implementation:

```yaml
apiVersion: messaging.knative.dev/v1
kind: Channel
metadata:
  name: <example-channel>
  namespace: <namespace>
spec:
  channelTemplate:
    apiVersion: messaging.knative.dev/v1
    kind: <channel-template-kind>
```
Where:

* `<example-channel>` is the name of the channel you want to create.
* `<namespace>` is the name of your target namespace.
* `<channel-template-kind>` is the kind of channel, such as InMemoryChannel or KafkaChannel,

> based on the default ConfigMap. See an example in [Channel types and defaults](./channel-types-defaults).

Reviewer: again, broken link

Reviewer 2: Thanks, will fix.

!!! note
    The `spec.channelTemplate` property cannot be changed after creation, because it is
    set by the default channel mechanism, not the user.

The channel controller creates a backing channel instance based on the `spec.channelTemplate`.

When this mechanism is used two objects are created; a generic Channel object and an
InMemoryChannel object. The generic object acts as a proxy for the InMemoryChannel object
by copying its subscriptions to, and setting its status to, that of the InMemoryChannel
object.

> !!! note  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
!!! note
```

# Creating a channel using cluster or namespace defaults

Developers can create channels of any supported implementation type by creating an instance of a
Channel object.

> To create a channel:

Reviewer: same thing with caps etc

* Create a [Channel object](https://knative.dev/docs/reference/api/eventing/#messaging.knative.dev/v1.Channel) by running:

    ```yaml
    kubectl apply -f <<EOF
    apiVersion: messaging.knative.dev/v1
    kind: Channel
    metadata:
      name: <example-channel>
      namespace: <namespace>
    EOF
    ```
    Where:

    * `<example-channel>` is the name of the channel you want to create.
    * `<namespace>` is the name of your target namespace.

If you create this object in the `default` namespace, according to the default ConfigMap
example in [Channel types and defaults](/eventing/channels/channel-types-defaults), it is an InMemoryChannel
channel implementation.

<!-- TODO: Add tabs for kn etc-->

After the Channel object is created, a mutating admission webhook sets the `spec.channelTemplate` based on the default channel implementation:

```yaml
kubectl apply -f <<EOF
apiVersion: messaging.knative.dev/v1
kind: Channel
metadata:
  name: <example-channel>
  namespace: <namespace>
spec:
  channelTemplate:
    apiVersion: messaging.knative.dev/v1
    kind: <channel-template-kind>
EOF

> ```

Reviewer: I could be wrong, but I don't think this is something a user applies, I think it's supposed to just be an example of what the resource looks like after spec.channelTemplate is set?
Someone from @knative/eventing-reviewers can probably confirm better, cc @n3wscott

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I changed it from a step to simply an introductory sentence.

Reviewer: I just mean that I don't think this example needs ` kubectl apply -f <<EOF` etc because the changes we're talking about are applied by the webhook, not manually by the user - I think this one should just be an example of YAML showing the actual values rather than the variables etc. This would be worth double checking with some SME for eventing though

Reviewer 4: Yes this correct @abrennan89  user doesn't create the object `spec:` this section just want to show what the controller will create, the user doesn't do the `kubectl` with the `channelTemplate` section.

Reviewer: @RichardJJG if you can update on this one I can merge the PR

Where:

* `<example-channel>` is the name of the channel you want to create.
* `<namespace>` is the name of your target namespace.
* `<channel-template-kind>` is the kind of channel, such as InMemoryChannel or KafkaChannel,
based on the default ConfigMap. See an example in [Channel types and defaults](/eventing/channels/channel-types-defaults).

!!! note
    The `spec.channelTemplate` property cannot be changed after creation, because it is

>     set by the default channel mechanism, not the user.

Reviewer: see above comment - this is why

The channel controller creates a backing channel instance based on the `spec.channelTemplate`.

When this mechanism is used two objects are created; a generic Channel object and an
InMemoryChannel object. The generic object acts as a proxy for the InMemoryChannel object
by copying its subscriptions to, and setting its status to, that of the InMemoryChannel
object.

> !!! note
>     Defaults only apply when objects are created.
>     Defaults are applied by the webhook only when a channel or sequence is created.
>     If the default settings change, the new defaults only apply to newly created channels,
>     brokers, or sequences. Existing ones do not change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note
    Defaults are only applied by the webhook when a Channel or Sequence is initially created. If the default settings are changed, the new defaults will only be applied to newly created Channels, Brokers, or Sequences. Existing resources are not updated automatically to use the new configuration.
```

showlandingtoc: "true"
---

Developers can create channels of any supported implementation type by creating an instance of a

> `Channel` object.

Reviewer: If this is for mkdocs does it not need a H1?

Reviewer: Also, be consistent with Channel vs `Channel` - in all the content above there are no backticks

Reviewer 2: Yep, added the header, thanks. I'll drop the backticks from "Channel" as an object.

To create a channel:

> 1. Create a [Channel object](https://knative.dev/docs/reference/api/eventing/#messaging.knative.dev/v1.Channel): <!-- Where do you enter the below? -->

Reviewer: Again, Channel vs `Channel` inconsistent, please check throughout and pick one to go with and add to the style guide. Pretty sure the k8s guide has guidance on formatting API objects we can use?

Reviewer: re "Where do you enter the below?" you create a YAML file.
I'd update this to use the `kubectl apply -f <<EOF` rules we added to the [style guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tigolRzKhronvgoAJfszE-XHWWd0LQ8o_j0D73O9KvM/edit#heading=h.qqz6in2pxqzk) - same for all bits where YAMLs are created please.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, will change accordingly.

      ```yaml
      apiVersion: messaging.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Channel
      metadata:

>         name: <my-channel>

Reviewer: change it to `<example-channel>` maybe?

Reviewer 2: Okay, will do.

        namespace: <namespace>
      ```
      Where:

>       * `<my-channel>` is a name of your choice.

Reviewer: same as above

Reviewer: Also I'd say something like "is the name of the channel you want to create" maybe instead

Reviewer 2: Okay, will do

      * `<namespace>` is the name of your target namespace.

      If you create this object in the `default` namespace, according to the default ConfigMap
      example in [Channel types and defaults](./channel-types-defaults), it is an `InMemoryChannel`

>       channel implementation.

Reviewer: Again, `InMemoryChannel` vs InMemoryChannel - be consistent and doc which formatting we use

<!--TODO: Add tabs for kn etc-->

2.  After the Channel object is created, a mutating admission webhook sets the `spec.channelTemplate`
based on the default channel implementation:

      ```yaml
      apiVersion: messaging.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Channel
      metadata:
        name: <my-channel>
        namespace: <namespace>
      spec:
        channelTemplate:
          apiVersion: messaging.knative.dev/v1
          kind: <channel-template-kind>
      ```
      Where:
      * `<my-channel>` is a name of your choice.
      * `<namespace>` is the name of your target namespace.
      * `<channel-template-kind>` is the kind of channel, such as `InMemoryChannel` or `KafkaChannel`,
      based on the default ConfigMap. See an example in [Channel types and defaults](./channel-types-defaults).

      **NOTE:** The `spec.channelTemplate` property cannot be changed after creation, because it is

>       set by the default channel mechanism, not the user.

Reviewer: reformat for mkdocs?

Reviewer 2: Yep, will do

3. The channel controller creates a backing channel instance based on the `spec.channelTemplate`.

      When this mechanism is used two objects are created; a generic `Channel` object and an
      `InMemoryChannel` object. The generic object acts as a proxy for the `InMemoryChannel` object
      by copying its subscriptions to, and setting its status to, that of the `InMemoryChannel`
      object.

**NOTE:** Defaults only apply when objects are created.
Defaults are applied by the webhook only when a channel or sequence is created.
If the default settings change, the new defaults only apply to newly created channels, brokers, or

> sequences. Existing ones do not change.

Reviewer: reformat for mkdocs?

Reviewer 2: Yep, will do
